学生 → 指導教員 Student → Project Advisor

商学研究科ビジネス専攻：専門職学位論文計画書
MBA Degree Thesis Plan
指導教員／Project Advisor

修了希望年月／
Graduation date

学籍番号／
Student I.D. No.

氏名／Name

AIBA, Koji

□ September, 2013
□ March, 20

35112327-8

RIDGWAY, Ben

論文の主題／
Main title

The Democratization of Entrepreneurship: and Implications

論文の概要／Summary of Thesis

BACKGROUND
The practice of entrepreneurship and its underlying theories have undergone considerable
change in the past decade. Each new wave of technology over the past 50 years has led to a
new breed of startups in pursuit of innovation. Until recently, the rate of innovation
experienced by startups was constrained by limitations that we have only just begun to fully
understand. This understanding, combined with rapid technological developments and other
forces, is causing a systematic removal of what were once severe barriers to entrepreneurship,
such as, long development cycles, limited access to seed capital, high costs to first customer.
The net result of this phenomenon is the “democratization of entrepreneurship”, whereby a
surge in participants in entrepreneurial activities and the contribution of these activities are
being felt across the globe.

OBJECTIVES
In addition to outlining the changing trends in the practice and theory of entrepreneurship
and the emergence of new knowledge and ecosystems available to today’s entrepreneurs, the
author would also like to explore some of the likely implications arising from this
democratization, including its impact on economies, employment, and social and technological
progress.

1/2
20000710

FLOW OF THE THESIS
The entire thesis is consisted of 6 chapters, including the Introduction. In chapter 1, the
author will outline how the entrepreneurial landscape of most Western economies (especially
the U.S.) has evolved over the past 50 years, leading up to the turn of the 21 st Century when
today’s democratizing forces first started to take shape. In Chapter 2, the author will outline
the causal factors of the democratization of entrepreneurship. Chapter 3 will explore examples
of how changes in both the theory and practice of entrepreneurship has led to some
remarkable innovations, with a particular focus on the lean startup movement and agile
software development methodology as catalysts for change. Chapter 4 will begin to address
some of the implications of the democratization of entrepreneurship from the standpoint of the
general economy and employment. Chapter 5 will examine some of the technological and
social implications of the movement. Finally, Chapter 6 will present the author’s
recommendations as to how to optimize the opportunities made available by today’s
entrepreneurial renaissance, with a special health warning on the importance of channeling
resources and entrepreneurial passion across a variety of economic sectors and regions.
参考文献リスト／References

Book: The Lean Startup, Eric Ries
Book: The Four Steps to the Epithany, Steve Blank
Book: The Owner’s Startup Manual, Steve Blank & Bob Dorf
Book: Leading Lean Software Development: Results Are Not the Point, Mary and Tom
Poppendieck
Technology, innovation and entrepreneurship blogs (e.g. Steve Blank, Seth Levine, Fred
Wilson etc.)
Startups, entrepreneurship and technology Press
US Census Bureau

2/2
20000710

