Developer Agreement
Date: 21 June 2013
Parties
1. ‘Bobop’: Ben Gibbs trading as Bobop, whose registered
office is at 12 Boscombe Street, Moss Side, Manchester, M14 7PG
2. ‘the Customer’: [_______________________________] (registered
[___________________________])
whose registered office is at
[____________________________________________________________]

Operative Provisions:
1. The terms and conditions set out in Part 2 shall form part of this Agreement and all terms are defined in
the terms and conditions.
2. In consideration of the payment by the Customer of the Development Fees Bobop agrees to provide the
Software design and development services upon the terms and conditions of this Agreement;
3. This Agreement shall commence on the date hereof and shall continue unless or until terminated by either
party in accordance with the terms and conditions.
4. On payment in full of the Development Fees, Bobop:
a. grants to the Customer (and to any third party hosting the Software) a non-exclusive, []
unrestricted non-transferrable right to use the sections of the Software which were created prior to
this agreement, and;
b. transfers all transferable rights (including but not limited to copyright and database rights) to the
Customer in all new code written under this agreement.
5. The Customer agrees to grant to Bobop a non-exclusive unrestricted licence to use the new code written
under this agreement on future projects, provided the projects are not marketed to the _________ industry
as ________.

6. The construction validity and performance of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of England.

Signature:

Signature:

Signed by: Ben Gibbs

Signed by:

[print name]

[print name]

Position: Owner

Position:

duly authorised and on behalf of Bobop

duly authorised for and on behalf of the
Customer

Part 1
1 Web site domain name
The website will operate at [________________________________]
2 Fees
2.1 Development Fee
Development fees will be charged at the end of each calendar month in which work has been conducted.
The amounts incurred will be agreed upon prior to the work being commenced at the start of each calendar
month, subject to Change Requests.
2.2 Support Fees
Free “One working day” response support for the Software as per the warranty as described in section 9 of
this agreement and any additional support fees both parties shall agree upon from time to time.
3 Notices
To Bobop: email ben@bobop.co.uk
To the Customer: email [____________________________________________________]

Part 2
Terms and Conditions
1 Definitions
1.1 In the Agreement unless the context otherwise requires:

‘Confidential Information’

shall include, but not necessarily be limited to, all information
which is not publicly known including the business, finances,
technology (including without limitation the Software and the
Documentation) trade secrets, and any other commercially
sensitive information of either party regardless of its nature;

‘Change Request’

a request for a change made by the Customer or
Bobop;

‘Development Fees’

the sums specified as development fees in Part 1

‘Fees’

the Development Fees and (where Bobop is to
provide Support Services) the Support Fees

‘Intellectual Property Rights’

all copyright and other intellectual property rights,
howsoever arising and in whatever media, whether or
not registered, including (without limitation) patents,
trademarks, database rights, service marks, trade names,
registered design and any applications for the protection or
registration of these rights and all renewals and
extensions thereof throughout the world;

‘Software’

the software being developed or customised by
Bobop to the Specification and all upgrades, enhancements,
variations and fixes to the software, but excluding third
party software;

‘Specification’

means the specification for the Software determined in
accordance with clause 2 and the Schedule and the
timescale for the creation or customisation of the Software;

‘Support Services’

those services specified in the Schedule;

‘Support Fees’

any sums specified as support fees in Part 1

‘Website’

the website known under the domain name set out in
Part 1 and such other additional sites and domain
names as the parties shall agree upon from time to
time.

2 Web Site development
2.1 Bobop agrees to design and develop the Software in accordance with the Specification. The Specification
shall be drawn up by Bobop in accordance with the procedure specified in the Schedule hereto.
2.2 The Customer must provide to Bobop in timely and suitable manner such information (“Information”) as
may be reasonably necessary to enable Bobop to complete the Software in accordance with the
Specification, provided that the Customer shall not supply any Information which infringes the Intellectual
Property Rights of a third party or is fraudulent, offensive, abusive, defamatory, obscene or menacing or
causes annoyance, inconvenience or needless anxiety or constitutes unsolicited advertising or promotional
material.
2.3 Bobop shall convert the Information into a display-ready format for the Software, as is appropriate to the
nature of that Information. If the Information is not in a suitable digital format an additional charge will be
made for its conversion by Bobop.
2.4 On the understanding that the during the course of development of the Software, commercially
advantageous features will be created, Bobop agrees for a period of 2 years following completion or
termination of this Agreement, to not create or work on projects which are marketed to or intended to be
marketed to the Customer’s specific niche audience. For the avoidance of doubt, the term ‘marketed’
includes specific references on the service website or promotional documentation to niche audience specific
roles to be defined in a further schedule.
3 Website acceptance
3.1 Upon completion of the Software, Bobop shall make the Web Site available for access by the Customer
on a test server. the Customer shall arrange for the performance of a test on the Software and the Web Site
within seven (7) days of notification of the test server address in order to determine whether it conforms to
the Specification.
3.1.1 Where no amendments are communicated to Bobop by the Customer within the seven (7) day
period the Customer shall be deemed to have accepted the Software and Web Site.
3.1.2 Where amendments are communicated to Bobop by the Customer within the seven (7) day
period Bobop shall as soon as possible notify the Customer if it considers any matters notified by the
Customer to be outside of the Specification. If it does so notify the Customer the parties shall
proceed in accordance with clause 5 below and the provisions of this clause 3.1 shall apply to any
agreed changes. In all other circumstances acceptance shall be deemed to have occurred once
matters notified by the Customer that are within the Specification have been corrected by Bobop.

3.2 Upon acceptance of the Software, Bobop will subject to clause 6.1 deliver the Web Site to the third party
host nominated by the Customer.
3.2.1 Bobop shall, at the Customer’s expense, co-operate with the Host in the installation of the
Software and ensure that the Web Site complies with the third party host’s reasonable technical and
functional requirements for hosting the Web Site.
4 Representatives and personnel
4.1 Each party shall communicate to the other upon the date hereof the identity of the person(s) or the
department within its undertaking who shall act as the sole contact point and channel of communication for
the provision by Bobop of the Services during the currency of the Agreement. Each party shall forthwith
inform the other of any change in the identity of any such person(s).
4.2 Bobop shall ensure that all of its personnel engaged hereunder:
4.2.1 have the necessary skills, expertise and diligence to undertake such work and will conform to
the professional standards generally observed in the computer industry for similar services;
4.2.2 comply with the provisions in this Agreement relating to Confidential Information.
4.3 The Customer shall:
4.3.1 ensure that its employees and other independent contractors co-operate reasonably with
Bobop and its employees in carrying out its obligation hereunder and promptly furnish Bobop with
such information and documents as it may reasonably request for the proper performance of its
obligations under this Agreement; and
4.3.2 ensure that its representative appointed pursuant to clause 4.1 is available as reasonably
required by Bobop.
5 Change control
5.1 If either party identifies a requirement for a change, a Change Request will be sent to the other party
detailing the change requirements. If sent by Bobop, the Change Request shall state the effect such a
change shall have on the Software, the Specification, any agreed timetable and the Price. If sent by the
Customer, the receipt of the Change Request by Bobop will constitute a request to Bobop to state in writing
the effect such a change shall have on the Software, the Specification, any agreed timetable and the Price.
Bobop shall use all reasonable endeavours to supply the necessary details within 10 working days from
receipt of the Change Request or such other period as may be agreed.

5.2 The parties will then decide whether or not to implement the change. If the change is implemented, the
amended Software, Specification, any agreed timetable or Price shall then become the Software,
Specification, any agreed timetable and Price for the purpose of this Agreement.
5.3 Bobop shall not implement any changes unless instructed to do so by the Customer’s representative.
6 Other Services
6.1 If the Customer requires Bobop to host the Website it shall execute Bobop’s then current hosting
agreement and return the same to Bobop. Provided that the Customer has paid all Fees promptly Bobop
shall provide the hosting services to the Customer in accordance with the terms of its then current hosting
agreement.
6.2 Bobop shall if requested by the Customer and in consideration of the Customer paying Support Fees
provide the Customer with the Support Services. The Customer shall be entitled to serve notice upon Bobop
at any time informing Bobop that it no longer requires Bobop to provide the Support Services, any such
notice to expire on the last day of the period for which the Support Fees have been paid (or should have
been paid).
7 Fees
7.1 The Fees (together with value added tax thereon) shall be levied by Bobop as set out in Part 1 and shall
be payable by the Customer within 7 days of receipt of Bobop’s invoice therefor which invoices shall be
raised as specified in Part 1.
7.2 Bobop reserves the right to charge the Customer interest in respect of the late payment of any sum due
under the Agreement (as well after as before judgment) at the rate of 8 per cent per annum above the base
rate from time to time of The Co-operative Bank plc from the due date therefor until payment.
8 Property and confidentiality
8.1 The transferable Intellectual Property Rights in the new Software under this agreement (including the
source and object code) shall be transferred to the Customer. On payment in full of the Development Fees,
Bobop shall provide to Customer an electronic copy of the source code. Where the Software incorporates
code which was not written under this agreement, Bobop may provide the functional elements of that code
so as to keep the source code functional.
8.2 Bobop will indemnify the Customer on demand against all costs, claims, demands, expenses and
liabilities of whatsoever nature arising out of or in connection with any claim that the use or possession of

the Software infringes the intellectual property rights of any third party subject to the following conditions:
8.2.1 the Customer shall promptly notify Bobop in writing of any allegations of infringement of which
it is aware and shall not make any admissions without Bobop’s prior written consent;
8.2.2 the Customer, at Bobop’s request and expense, shall allow Bobop to conduct and/or settle all
negotiations and litigation resulting from any such claim subject to Bobop taking over such conduct
within ten working days after being notified of the claim and providing that Bobop diligently pursues
the settlement of any such claim; and
8.2.3 the Customer shall, at the request of Bobop, afford all reasonable assistance with such
negotiations or litigation, and shall be reimbursed by Bobop on demand for all expenses incurred in
doing so.
8.3 If the Customer’s use or possession of the Software or any part thereof in accordance with this
Agreement, is held by a court of competent jurisdiction to constitute an infringement of a third party’s
intellectual property rights, then Bobop shall promptly and at its own expense:
8.3.1 procure for the Customer the right to continue using and possessing the Software or the
infringing part; or
8.3.2 modify or replace the Software (or part thereof) without detracting from the overall
performance of the Software, so as to avoid the infringement.
8.4 Both during this Agreement and after its termination, the parties shall treat as confidential (and shall
procure that its personnel and each of them treat as confidential) and shall not (and shall procure that their
personnel and each of them does not) (other than in the proper provision of the services required pursuant
to the Agreement) use or disclose to any person, firm or company, any Confidential Information belonging to
the other party or its clients, suppliers or the Customers, nor permit its use or disclosure.
8.5 The Customer shall inform all relevant employees agents and sub-contractors that all intellectual
property rights in the software forming the Web Site are the property of Bobop and the Customer shall take
all such steps as shall be necessary to ensure compliance by its employees agents and sub-contractors with
the provisions of this clause 8.
8.6 The provisions of this clause shall survive the termination of this Agreement but the restrictions
contained in clause 8.4 shall cease to apply to any information which may come into the public domain
otherwise than through unauthorised disclosure.
8.7 Nothing in this clause 8 shall prevent Bobop from exploiting any inventions or software that it develops

during the course of this Agreement.
9 Warranty
9.1 Subject to the limitations upon its liability in clause 10 below Bobop warrants that:
9.1.1 that it has the right power and authority to license to the Customer the parts of the Software
created prior to this agreement, including any third party software used by Bobop to complete the
Specification upon the terms and conditions of the Agreement;
9.1.2 the Software will for a period of 180 days from the acceptance date (as determined in
accordance with clause 3.1.2) conform to the Specification; and
9.1.3 it will perform the Services with reasonable care and skill.
9.2 The Customer shall give notice to Bobop as soon as it is reasonably able upon becoming aware of a
breach of warranty.
9.3 Bobop shall remedy promptly any breach of the warranties set out in this clause 9 as soon as reasonably
practicable free of charge.
9.4 Without prejudice to the foregoing Bobop does not warrant that the Use of the Software or any third
party software will be uninterrupted or error free and Bobop shall not be liable under this clause 9 if a failure
to meet the warranties set out therein is caused by:
9.4.1 software other than the Software running on the equipment hosting the Website; or
9.4.2 modifications or customisations made by or on behalf of the Customer to the Software without
the authorisation of Bobop.
9.5 Subject to the foregoing all conditions warranties terms and undertakings express or implied statutory or
otherwise in respect of the Web Site and the provision of the Services are hereby excluded to the fullest
extent permitted by law.
10 Limitation of liability
10.1 The following provisions set out Bobop’s entire liability (including any liability for the acts and omissions
of its employees agents and sub-contractors) to the Customer in respect of:
10.1.1 any breach of its contractual obligations arising under the Agreement; and

10.1.2 any representation statement or tortious act or omission including negligence arising under or
in connection with the Agreement
AND THE CUSTOMER'S ATTENTION IS IN PARTICULAR DRAWN TO THE PROVISIONS OF THIS CLAUSE 10.
10.2 Any act or omission on the part of Bobop or its employees agents or sub-contractors falling within
clause 10.1 above shall for the purposes of this clause 10 be known as an ‘Event of Default'.
10.3 Bobop's liability to the Customer for death or injury resulting from its own or its employees' agents' or
sub-contractors' negligence shall not be limited.
10.4 Subject to the limits set out in clause 10.5.1 below Bobop shall accept liability to the Customer in
respect of damage to the tangible property of the Customer resulting from the negligence of Bobop or its
employees agents or sub-contractors.
10.5 Subject to the provisions of clause 10.3 above Bobop's entire liability in respect of any Event of Default
shall be limited to damages of an amount equal to:
10.5.1 £50,000 in the case of an Event of Default falling within clause 10.4 above; and
10.5.2 in the case of any other Event of Default the aggregate of the Development Fee and where
applicable the Hosting fee paid in the immediately preceding period of 12 months.
10.6 Subject to clause 10.3 above Bobop shall not be liable to the Customer in respect of any Event of
Default for loss of profits goodwill or any type of special indirect or consequential loss (including loss or
damage suffered by the Customer as a result of an action brought by a third party) even if such loss was
reasonably foreseeable or Bobop had been advised of the possibility of the Customer incurring the same.
10.7 If a number of Events of Default give rise substantially to the same loss then they shall be regarded as
giving rise to only one claim under the Agreement.
10.8 the Customer hereby agrees to afford Bobop not less than 28 days (following notification thereof by the
Customer) in which to remedy any Event of Default hereunder.
10.9 Except in the case of an Event of Default arising under clause 10.3 above Bobop shall have no liability
to the Customer in respect of any Event of Default unless the Customer shall have served notice of the same
upon Bobop within 1 year of the date it became aware of the circumstances giving rise to the Event of
Default or the date when it ought reasonably to have become so aware.

10.10 Nothing in this clause shall confer any right or remedy upon the Customer to which it would not
otherwise be legally entitled.
11 Indemnity
11.1 The Customer shall be liable for and will indemnify Bobop against any and all liability, loss, damages,
legal costs, professional and other expenses of any nature whatsoever incurred or suffered by Bobop arising
out of any dispute or contractual tortious or other claims or proceedings brought against Bobop as a result
of any claim by any third party that any of the Customer’s domain names, any changes to the Specification,
Software or the Web Site requested by the Customer, or any of the Information infringes the Intellectual
Property Right of a third party or is fraudulent, offensive, abusive, defamatory, obscene or menacing or
causes annoyance, inconvenience or needless anxiety or constitutes unsolicited advertising or promotional
material except insofar as any such claims may arise from any breach of the Agreement by Bobop.
11.2 Bobop will indemnify and hold harmless the Customer against any damages (including costs) that may
be awarded or agreed to be paid to any third party in respect of any claim or action that the normal
operation hosting or use of the Web Site infringes the patent copyright registered design or trade mark
rights of a third party (an `Intellectual Property Infringement') provided that the Customer:
11.2.1 gives notice to Bobop of any Intellectual Property Infringement forthwith upon becoming
aware of the same;
11.2.2 gives Bobop the sole conduct of the defence to any claim or action in respect of an
Intellectual Property Infringement and does not at any time admit liability or otherwise settle or
compromise or attempt to settle or compromise the said claim or action except upon the express
instructions of Bobop; and
11.2.3 acts in accordance with the reasonable instructions of Bobop and gives to Bobop such
assistance as it shall reasonably require in respect of the conduct of the said defence including
without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing the filing of all pleadings and other court process
and the provision of all relevant documents.
11.3 Bobop shall reimburse the Customer its reasonable costs incurred in complying with the provisions of
clause 11.2 above.
11.4 Bobop shall have no liability to the Customer in respect of an Intellectual Property Infringement if the
same results from any breach of the Customer's obligations under the Agreement.
11.5 In the event of an Intellectual Property Infringement Bobop shall be entitled at its own expense and
option either to:

11.5.1 procure the right for the Customer to continue using the Software; or
11.5.2 make such alterations modifications or adjustments to the Software so that it becomes noninfringing.
11.6 If Bobop in its reasonable judgement is not able to exercise any of the options set out at clauses 11.5.1
or 11.5.2 above within 28 days of the date it received notice of the Intellectual Property Infringement then
the Customer without prejudice to any other rights or remedies it may have hereunder or at law shall be
entitled to terminate the Agreement by 28 days' notice upon Bobop.
11.7 The provisions of clause 10 above shall not apply to this clause 11.
12 Termination
12.1 Either party may terminate the Agreement without prejudice to its other remedies forthwith by notice in
writing to the other if that other either:
12.1.1 commits a breach of the Agreement (which shall include any failure to make any payment on
the due date therefor); provided that if the breach is capable of remedy the notice shall only be
given if the party in breach shall not have remedied the same within 30 days of having been given
notice in writing specifying the breach and requiring it to be remedied; or
12.1.2 is unable to pay its debts or enters into compulsory or voluntary liquidation (other than for
the purpose of effecting a reconstruction or amalgamation in such manner that the company
resulting from such reconciliation or amalgamation if different legal entity shall agree to be bound by
and assume the obligations of the relevant party under the Agreement) or compounds with or
convenes a meeting of its creditors or has a receiver or manager or an administrative receiver or any
administrator appointed over any of its assets or ceases for any reason to carry on business or takes
or suffers any similar action which in the opinion of the party giving notice means that the other may
be unable to pay its debts.
12.2 The Customer shall be entitled to terminate the licence granted to it pursuant to the Agreement upon
giving written notice to Bobop.
12.3 Termination of the Agreement for whatever reason shall not affect the accrued rights of the parties
arising in any way out of the Agreement as at the date of termination and in particular but without limitation
the right to recover damages from the other.
12.4 All provisions of the Agreement which in order to give effect to their meaning need to survive its

termination shall remain in full force and effect thereafter.
13 Force majeure
13.1 Bobop shall not be in breach of the Agreement if there is any total or partial failure of performance by it
of its duties and obligations under the Agreement occasioned by any cause beyond its control. If Bobop is
unable to perform its duties and obligations under the Agreement as a direct result of the effect of any such
cause it shall give written notice to the Customer of such inability stating the cause in question and the date
on which such cause commenced. The operation of the Agreement shall be suspended during the period
(and only during the period) in which the cause continues to have effect. Forthwith upon the cause ceasing
to have effect Bobop shall give written notice thereof to the Customer. If the cause continues to have effect
for a period of more than 60 days the Customer shall have the right to terminate the Agreement upon giving
30 days written notice of such termination to Bobop, but such notice shall not take effect if Bobop gives
notice within that period that the cause has ceased to prevent the operation of the Agreement and forthwith
upon such cessation recommences the full and punctual performance of its obligations hereunder.
14 General provisions
14.1 The waiver by either party of a breach or default of any of the provisions of the Agreement by the other
party shall not be construed as a waiver of any succeeding breach of the same or other provisions nor shall
any delay or omission on the part of either party to exercise or avail itself of any right power or privilege that
it has or may have hereunder operate as a waiver of any breach or default by the other party.
14.2 Any notice request instruction or other document to be given hereunder shall be delivered or sent by
first class post, email or by facsimile transmission (such email or facsimile transmission notice to be
confirmed by letter posted within 12 hours) to the address or to the facsimile number of the other party as
set out in Part 1 (or such other address or numbers as may have been notified) and any such notice or other
document shall be deemed to have been served (if delivered) at the time of delivery (if sent by post) upon
the expiration of 48 hours after posting and (if sent by facsimile transmission) upon the expiration of 12
hours after dispatch.
14.3 If any provision of the Agreement shall be found by any court or administrative body of competent
jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable the invalidity or unenforceability of such provision shall not affect
the other provisions of the Agreement and all provisions not affected by such invalidity or unenforceability
shall remain in full force and effect. The parties hereby agree to attempt to substitute for any invalid or
unenforceable provision a valid or enforceable provision which achieves to the greatest extent possible the
economic legal and commercial objectives of the invalid or unenforceable provision.
14.4 Bobop shall not be liable to the Customer for loss arising from or in connection with any representations
agreements statements or undertakings made prior to the date of execution of the Agreement other than

those representations agreements statements and undertakings made fraudulently or confirmed by a duly
authorised representative of Bobop in writing or expressly incorporated or referred to in the Agreement.
14.5 The Agreement shall be binding upon and ensure for the benefit of the successors in title of the parties
hereto. Bobop shall be entitled to sub-contract all or any part of its services to be provided pursuant to the
Agreement.
14.6 Headings to clauses in the Agreement are for the purpose of information and identification only and
shall not be construed as forming part of the Agreement.
14.7 The Agreement shall not be amended, modified, varied or supplemented except in writing signed by a
director of Bobop and a duly authorised representative of the Customer.
14.8 Bobop reserves the right to refer to its work under this Agreement in Bobop’s sales literature, press
releases, web site or other sales materials

